# **Enhancement Three: Databases**

This artifact uses the project from CS-340 completed in August of 2024.  The original artifact is a python file that was to serve as the backend of an animal shelters database by using PyMongo to interface with the database.  This basic file only has simple functionality of CRUD, create, read, update, and delete, and only for single files at a time, while the enhanced artifact has more in depth SQL functionality.

This artifact was selected as it is a fantastic example of the construction of databases on the backend.  CRUD is the basis of how databases are made to be more useful than just as large storage mediums.  These basic functions provide the read/write functionality that allows for analysis to be done on the information stored in a database.  With the improvements I made such as the ability to add, delete, and update multiple items with a single command, the functionality of the code has been noticeably increased.  These additional functions show my ability to expand upon existing SQL and python code.
I feel that I have accomplished  course objectives that I set out to complete with this artifact.  I improved the functionality of the base code to allow for the addition, deletion, and updating of multiple files in the database with a single command, as opposed to using a single command for each individual change that needs to be done.  I do not currently have plans to update my outcome-coverage plans.

When enhancing this artifact I really got an appreciation of how simple implementing basic CRUD functionality for a database is.  Just those four functions allow for the creation of simple, but fairly comprehensive, database manipulation.  Adding the ability to change multiple files at a time, while on the surface does not really change much in the broad functionality of the python code, does allow for much more efficient use of time when modifying the data in the database.  Instead of having to change individual files one command at a time, with the additions I made a user would be able to change whole swaths of files at a time, assuming that the changed data is the same for all of them.  Similarly, mass deletion becomes very easy as it is just a single command as opposed to one per file.  It really shows how fairly minimal changes can have huge impacts on the user friendliness of a project, especially when working with a database.

### **Repository Link**

- [Enhancement Two Repository]((https://github.com/JaredIckler/CS499-EnhancmentThree))
